README.md, before:

# Pele_scripts
Group of small scripts to perform pele analysis.

# Main Pele's Software
-------------------------------
1) [Protein Preparation for Pele](https://github.com/Jelisa/mut-prep4pele)
2) [PlopRotTemp_SCHR2017](https://github.com/miniaoshi/PlopRotTemp_S_2017)
3) [Adaptive PELE](https://github.com/AdaptivePELE/AdaptivePELE)
4) [PELE(comercial software)](https://pele.bsc.es/pele.wt)
5) [Analysis Tools](https://github.com/miniaoshi/Pele_scripts)
6) [Ligand Growing](https://github.com/miniaoshi/Ligand_growing)

# Analysis Tools
-------------------
- bestStructs.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
    Parse all the reports files under the current directory and sort them all by the chosen criteria. Then, output the n best structures. **Must be run from adaptive's root folder or Pele's result folder**
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python best_structs.py <criteria (column_number or column_name)>` <br />
    e.g.1. python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py Binding Energy. <br />
    e.g.2. python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py 5. <br />
    **Note: The criteria must be one of the report's column name/number after the column numberOfAcceptedSteps.**
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-s** "max or min" ( max to order from higher to lower values, min from lower to higher) --> Default: min. <br />
    i.e: -s max<br />
    **-f** frequency the Pele's controlfile save the output --> Default:1. <br />
    i.e: -f 4 <br />
    **Note: Important in case the output save frequency of your control file is >1** <br />
    **-n** Structures to be outputted --> Default:10. <br />
    i.e: -n 10<br />
    **-o** Output Folder --> Default Criteria's name <br />
    i.e: -o PRR_apo_Binding_energies <br />
    **-nm** Non numerical folders --> Default: False <br />
    i.e: -nm
    - **Output:** <br />
    The script will create a folder called {criteria} or {output} if -o option. Inside that one, you will have the structures named as: traj_{epoch}.{report}.{step}_{cirteria}_{value}.pdb


- rangeOfValues.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
    Parse all the reports under the current directory and sort them all by the chosen criteria and output the value range from [users_minimum_value:users_max_value]. **Must be run from adaptive's root folder or Pele's result folder**
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python best_structs.py <min_value> <max_value> <criteria> <br />`
    e.g.1. python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py -50 -40 Binding Energy. <br />
    e.g.2 python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py -50 -40 5. <br />
    **Note: The criteria must be one of the report's metric names/number.**
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-f** frequency the Pele's control file save the output --> Default:1. <br />
    i.e: -f 4 <br />
    **Note: Important in case the output save frequency of your control file is >1** <br />
    **-o** Output Folder --> Default Criteria's name <br />
    i.e: -o PRR_apo_Binding_energies
    **-nm** Non numerical folders --> Default: False <br />
    i.e: -nm
    - **Output:** <br />
    The script will create a folder called {criteria} or {output} if -o option. Inside that one, you will have the structures named as: traj_{epoch}.{report}.{step}_{criteria}_{value}.pdb
	
- box.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
    Create box of control file.
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python box.py <control_file>` <br />
    e.g. python box.py pele.conf
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-f** "file" (Output file) --> default: ./box.pdb
	The script will create a box.pdb with a cubic box showing pele's conformational space.

- plotAdaptive.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Write a string that creates a valid gnuplot command for plotting adaptive
     simulations. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python plotAdaptive.py steps_epoch xcol ycol filename -type_plot` <br />
    e.g. python /path/plotAdaptive.py 4 2 5 report_ -rmsd
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **--zcol** Column of a metric to use as color instead of the epoch --> default: None (use epoch as color) <br />
    **--traj_range** Range of trajectories to plot (has to be contigous) --> Default: plot all trajectories
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script prints a gnuplot valid command that can be piped to gnuplot or pasted inside a gnuplot script for tweaking

- backtrackAdaptiveTrajectory.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Recreate the trajectory fragments to the led to the discovery of a snapshot, specified by the tuple (epoch, trajectory, snapshot) and write as a pdb file. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python backtrackAdaptiveTrajectory.py epoch_number trajectory_number snapshot_number` <br />
    e.g. python /path/backtrackAdaptiveTrajectory.py 4 12 3
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-o** "output_folder" (name of the folder where to store the pdb file) --> default: "" (store in current folder) <br />
    **--name** Name of the file to store the trajectory --> Default: "pathway.pdb"
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will create a folder (if asked via the -o option) and inside you will have the file containing the trajectory that lead to snapshot of interest. If the filename already exists, a number will be appended to distinguish it, i.e. pathway.pdb --> pathway_1.pdb

- numberOfClusters.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Plot basic information about the clustering in an adaptive simulation. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python numberOfClusters.py` <br />
    e.g. python /path/numberOfClusters.py
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-o** "output" Name of the folder where to store the plots --> default: "" (store in current folder) <br />
    **-f** "filename" Name of the file to store the trajectory --> Default: "" (don't save the plots to disk)
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will generate 3 plots: 
        1. The number of clusters per density value at each epoch  
        2. The number of clusters per threshold value at each epoch 
        3. The histogram of the cluster representatives contact ratios

- plotSpawningClusters.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Plot basic information about the spawning in an adaptive simulation. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python plotSpawningClusters.py` <br />
    e.g. python /path/plotSpawningClusters.py
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-o** "output" Name of the folder where to store the plots --> default: "" (store in current folder) <br />
    **-f** "filename" Name of the file to store the trajectory --> Default: "" (don't save the plots to disk)
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will generate a plot showing the number of spawned processors
    from cluster categorized by their size 

- writeClusteringStructures.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Write specified cluster represenatative structures as a pdb file.
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python writeClusteringStructures.py clustering_object output_folder structures_to_print` <br />
    e.g. python /path/writeClusteringStructures.py 23/clustering/object.pkl cluster_struct/cluster.pdb 3 15 25 67
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **--threshold** Print all cluster structures that are below this threshold --> default: None (print strctures selected) <br />
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will create a folder (if passed in the output_folder option) and inside you will have the requested pdb files. The output_folder option has to contain the name of the output files as well as the output folder (if desired), i.e. path/cluster.pdb --> cluster/cluster_1.pdb, cluster/cluster_2.pdb, cluster/cluster_3.pdb, etc.

Commit message:

Add box.py output on docs

README.md, after:

# Pele_scripts
Group of small scripts to perform pele analysis.

# Main Pele's Software
-------------------------------
1) [Protein Preparation for Pele](https://github.com/Jelisa/mut-prep4pele)
2) [PlopRotTemp_SCHR2017](https://github.com/miniaoshi/PlopRotTemp_S_2017)
3) [Adaptive PELE](https://github.com/AdaptivePELE/AdaptivePELE)
4) [PELE(comercial software)](https://pele.bsc.es/pele.wt)
5) [Analysis Tools](https://github.com/miniaoshi/Pele_scripts)
6) [Ligand Growing](https://github.com/miniaoshi/Ligand_growing)
7) [MSM_PELE](https://github.com/miniaoshi/MSM_PELE)

# Analysis Tools
-------------------
- bestStructs.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
    Parse all the reports files under the current directory and sort them all by the chosen criteria. Then, output the n best structures. **Must be run from adaptive's root folder or Pele's result folder**
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python best_structs.py <criteria (column_number or column_name)>` <br />
    e.g.1. python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py Binding Energy. <br />
    e.g.2. python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py 5. <br />
    **Note: The criteria must be one of the report's column name/number after the column numberOfAcceptedSteps.**
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-s** "max or min" ( max to order from higher to lower values, min from lower to higher) --> Default: min. <br />
    i.e: -s max<br />
    **-f** frequency the Pele's controlfile save the output --> Default:1. <br />
    i.e: -f 4 <br />
    **Note: Important in case the output save frequency of your control file is >1** <br />
    **-n** Structures to be outputted --> Default:10. <br />
    i.e: -n 10<br />
    **-o** Output Folder --> Default Criteria's name <br />
    i.e: -o PRR_apo_Binding_energies <br />
    **-nm** Non numerical folders --> Default: False <br />
    i.e: -nm
    - **Output:** <br />
    The script will create a folder called {criteria} or {output} if -o option. Inside that one, you will have the structures named as: traj_{epoch}.{report}.{step}_{cirteria}_{value}.pdb


- rangeOfValues.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
    Parse all the reports under the current directory and sort them all by the chosen criteria and output the value range from [users_minimum_value:users_max_value]. **Must be run from adaptive's root folder or Pele's result folder**
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python best_structs.py <min_value> <max_value> <criteria> <br />`
    e.g.1. python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py -50 -40 Binding Energy. <br />
    e.g.2 python /home/dsoler/best_structs.py -50 -40 5. <br />
    **Note: The criteria must be one of the report's metric names/number.**
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-f** frequency the Pele's control file save the output --> Default:1. <br />
    i.e: -f 4 <br />
    **Note: Important in case the output save frequency of your control file is >1** <br />
    **-o** Output Folder --> Default Criteria's name <br />
    i.e: -o PRR_apo_Binding_energies
    **-nm** Non numerical folders --> Default: False <br />
    i.e: -nm
    - **Output:** <br />
    The script will create a folder called {criteria} or {output} if -o option. Inside that one, you will have the structures named as: traj_{epoch}.{report}.{step}_{criteria}_{value}.pdb
	
- box.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
    Create box of control file.
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python box.py <control_file>` <br />
    e.g. python box.py pele.conf
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-f** "file" (Output file) --> default: ./box.pdb
	The script will create a box.pdb with a cubic box showing pele's conformational space.
    - **Output:** <br />
    The script will create a box.pdb with the exploration box inside the control file.

- plotAdaptive.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Write a string that creates a valid gnuplot command for plotting adaptive
     simulations. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python plotAdaptive.py steps_epoch xcol ycol filename -type_plot` <br />
    e.g. python /path/plotAdaptive.py 4 2 5 report_ -rmsd
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **--zcol** Column of a metric to use as color instead of the epoch --> default: None (use epoch as color) <br />
    **--traj_range** Range of trajectories to plot (has to be contigous) --> Default: plot all trajectories
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script prints a gnuplot valid command that can be piped to gnuplot or pasted inside a gnuplot script for tweaking

- backtrackAdaptiveTrajectory.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Recreate the trajectory fragments to the led to the discovery of a snapshot, specified by the tuple (epoch, trajectory, snapshot) and write as a pdb file. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python backtrackAdaptiveTrajectory.py epoch_number trajectory_number snapshot_number` <br />
    e.g. python /path/backtrackAdaptiveTrajectory.py 4 12 3
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-o** "output_folder" (name of the folder where to store the pdb file) --> default: "" (store in current folder) <br />
    **--name** Name of the file to store the trajectory --> Default: "pathway.pdb"
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will create a folder (if asked via the -o option) and inside you will have the file containing the trajectory that lead to snapshot of interest. If the filename already exists, a number will be appended to distinguish it, i.e. pathway.pdb --> pathway_1.pdb

- numberOfClusters.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Plot basic information about the clustering in an adaptive simulation. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python numberOfClusters.py` <br />
    e.g. python /path/numberOfClusters.py
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-o** "output" Name of the folder where to store the plots --> default: "" (store in current folder) <br />
    **-f** "filename" Name of the file to store the trajectory --> Default: "" (don't save the plots to disk)
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will generate 3 plots: 
        1. The number of clusters per density value at each epoch  
        2. The number of clusters per threshold value at each epoch 
        3. The histogram of the cluster representatives contact ratios

- plotSpawningClusters.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Plot basic information about the spawning in an adaptive simulation. Should be run from the adaptive simulation folders
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python plotSpawningClusters.py` <br />
    e.g. python /path/plotSpawningClusters.py
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **-o** "output" Name of the folder where to store the plots --> default: "" (store in current folder) <br />
    **-f** "filename" Name of the file to store the trajectory --> Default: "" (don't save the plots to disk)
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will generate a plot showing the number of spawned processors
    from cluster categorized by their size 

- writeClusteringStructures.py
    - **Description:**  <br />
     Write specified cluster represenatative structures as a pdb file.
    - **Requested arguments:** <br />
    `$python writeClusteringStructures.py clustering_object output_folder structures_to_print` <br />
    e.g. python /path/writeClusteringStructures.py 23/clustering/object.pkl cluster_struct/cluster.pdb 3 15 25 67
    - **Optional arguments:** <br />
    **--threshold** Print all cluster structures that are below this threshold --> default: None (print strctures selected) <br />
    - **Output:** <br />
	The script will create a folder (if passed in the output_folder option) and inside you will have the requested pdb files. The output_folder option has to contain the name of the output files as well as the output folder (if desired), i.e. path/cluster.pdb --> cluster/cluster_1.pdb, cluster/cluster_2.pdb, cluster/cluster_3.pdb, etc.
